---
layout: blog
title:  "Java 8 Quiz"
date:   2016-07-21 18:50:12
categories: java
permalink: /java-8-quiz
author: Kylin Soong
duoshuoid: ksoong2016072101
excerpt: Lambda Expressions, @FunctionalInterface, etc. Quiz and Answer
---

* Table of contents
{:toc}

## Quiz

### 1. which of the following are not valid lambda expressions? 

1. () -> {}
2. () -> "Raoul"
3. () -> {return "Mario";}
4. (Integer i) -> return "Alan" + i;
5. (String s) -> {"Iron Man";}

[Answer](#only-4-and-5-are-invalid-lambdas)

### 2. Which of these interfaces are functional interfaces?

~~~
public interface Adder{
    int add(int a, int b);
}
~~~

~~~
public interface SmartAdder extends Adder{
    int add(double a, double b);
}
~~~

~~~
public interface Nothing{
}
~~~

[Answer](#only-adder-is-a-functional-interface)

### 3. Which of the following are valid uses of lambda expressions?

* A

~~~
execute(() -> {});
public void execute(Runnable r){
    r.run();
}
~~~

* B

~~~
public Callable<String> fetch() {
    return () -> "Tricky example ;-)";
}
~~~

* C

~~~
Predicate<Apple> p = (Apple a) -> a.getWeight();
public interface Predicate<T> {
    boolean predicate(T t);
}
~~~

[Answer](#only-a-and-b-are-valid)

### 4. What functional interfaces would you use for the following function descriptors (that is, signatures of a lambda expression)?

1. T -> R
2. (int, int) -> int
3. T -> void
4. () -> T
5. (T, U) -> R

[Answer](#all)

### 5. How could you fix the problem?

Object o = () -> {System.out.println("Tricky example"); };

[Answer](#answer-1)

### 6. What are equivalent method references for the following lambda expressions?

* A

Function<String, Integer> stringToInteger = (String s) -> Integer.parseInt(s);

* B

BiPredicate<List<String>, String> contains = (list, element) -> list.contains(element);

[Answer](#answer-for-6)





## Answer

### 1. Only 4 and 5 are invalid lambdas

To correct 4:

~~~
(Integer i) -> {return "Alan" + i;}
~~~

To correct 5:

~~~
(String s) -> {return "Iron Man";}
~~~

### 2. Only Adder is a functional interface

### 3. Only A and B are valid.

A is valid because the lambda () -> {} has the signature () -> void, which matches the signature of the abstract method run defined in Runnable. Note that running this code will do nothing because the body of the lambda is empty!

C is invalid because the lambda expression (Apple a) -> a.getWeight() has the signature (Apple) -> Integer, which is different than the signature of the method test defined in Predicate<Apple>: (Apple) -> boolean.

### 4. all

1. Function<T, R> is a good candidate. It’s typically used for converting an object of type T into an object of type R (for example, Function<Apple, Integer> to extract the weight of an apple).
2. IntBinaryOperator has a single abstract method called applyAsInt representing a function descriptor (int, int) -> int.
3. Consumer<T> has a single abstract method called accept representing a function descriptor T -> void.
4. Supplier<T> has a single abstract method called get representing a function descriptor () -> T. Alternatively, Callable<T> also has a single abstract method called call representing a function descriptor () -> T.
5. BiFunction<T, U, R> has a single abstract method called apply representing a function descriptor (T, U) -> R.

### 5. answer

The context of the lambda expression is Object (the target type). But Object isn’t a functional interface. To fix this you can change the target type to Runnable, which represents a function descriptor () -> void:

Runnable r = () -> {System.out.println("Tricky example"); };

### 6. answer for 6

* A

Function<String, Integer> stringToInteger = Integer::parseInt

* B

BiPredicate<List<String>, String> contains = List::contains; 
